# 28-Risk Management

Hi, I'm Nitesh Meni, your partner in exploring quant finance research. I'm the Chief Strategy Officer at WorldQuant. In my role, I help to define our firm's strategy and drive several cross-functional business initiatives, including new avenues for growth and innovation. So in this video, let's look at factor risks, what they are, why they matter, and how we minimise that risk in our research.

As we develop the range of alpha ideas, we have to consider risks. The first is exposure to broad market or style factors, such as size, value, momentum and volatility. These are known as factor risks. The second component is the idiosyncratic signal that is specific to that particular alpha.

As a reminder, WorldQuant defines an alpha as a mathematical model that seeks to predict the future price movement of various financial instruments. Factor risks originated with academic financial models like the Capital Asset Pricing Model, also known as the CAPM model, which links the expected stock returns with market risk. Stephen Ross's Arbitrage Pricing Theory in 1976 also asserted that an asset's returns can be predicted by its relationship with common factor risks.

Let's review some common factor risks.

Beta risk, this is the portfolio's exposure to market direction. It is the result of a time series regression of a stock's returns against the returns of the market. Momentum is a portfolio's exposure to stock's recent uptrends or downtrends. This is formed by going long on the stocks which continue to be in an upward trend in the recent 6-12 months and shorting the ones which have been on the downward trend in the same time period.

Size is the return difference between large cap stocks and small cap stocks. Value contains three factors, earnings yield, dividend yield and book to price. The factors capture the return difference based on the company's earnings, dividend payout and last reported book value respectively. The growth factor differentiates stocks based on the prospects for sales or long-term predicted earnings growth.

Other factors include residual volatility, leverage and liquidity. You might wonder why we should eliminate exposure to factor risks. Whatever may be the asset class that is used in your alpha idea, risk will always be present. This means that the factor risks can increase correlations among different approaches.

If your investment style suffers a drawdown due to a factor, it might cause a drawdown in other investment styles exposed to the same factor. There is also a liquidation effect. These common factors across investment styles can transfer the negative impact from liquidation to otherwise unrelated areas of your research.

Let's break this down.

Having a downturn in a portfolio, if a portfolio manager with high exposure to the factor risks cuts their exposure quickly, their actions may cause drawdowns in these factors and the effect can pass on to other portfolios with similar factor exposures. In this situation, a portfolio with unmitigated factor risk exposure can experience drawdowns and may also have to be liquidated, further amplifying the losses. Therefore, it is recommended to maintain a novel idiosyncratic alpha pool and minimize these common factor exposures to seek to stabilize the pool's performance. Here is an example of one factor which is prone to such crashes, momentum, which has experienced sudden losses of 10 to 30% in the last 60 years.

In order to address these concerns, quant researchers can create a risk-neutral alpha. The process of making a risk-neutral alpha is fairly simple. We follow the similar cycle of creating an alpha, starting with an idea, implementing it, backtesting it and finally improving the alpha. The only difference is that the positions generated by the alpha are neutralized to our list of target factor risks and the alpha creation process focuses on building a stronger idiosyncratic component.

Let's go to Brain, our simulation platform and try this out. Here is a sample alpha for illustration purposes. The first plot is an alpha before risk neutralization. Once we neutralize the alpha to the commonly known factor risks, the improvement in the alpha is typically a higher sharp and lower drawdowns at the expense of a marginal increase in turnover.

Generally, it is a good practice to manage exposures to factor risks when designing research ideas. We reviewed the types of factor risks that could be present as you build your alpha pool, why they are important and how to seek to eliminate them using risk-neutral alphas. Quantitative research requires not just a sophisticated approach to identifying and implementing research ideas, but also a rigorous focus on risk management. Throughout these different videos, I have shown you how to think about the quant research cycle.

Quant research is an area, like many fields, it takes time to build expertise and requires a strong intuition to improve your ideas. The key is deepening your understanding by reading research papers and applying these ideas to different alphas which you can test out on brain.

Let's quant on.
