# 1. Hello Quants!
## 💡 BRAIN Tutorial
Welcome to BRAIN Tutorial! This tutorial offers a step-by-step interactive guide to building your first Alphas. By simply following along, anyone can take first steps into quantitative finance and easily create submittable alphas.

Each module contains tasks that you'll need to complete successfully to advance to the next learning module. Don't worry if you get stuck—we've provided hints and example answers to support your learning journey!

## 🧠 BRAIN Platform
Welcome to BRAIN! BRAIN is a cloud-based simulation platform, used by more than 100,000 emerging quants across 180 countries to develop and test their ideas. With BRAIN, where you can express your quantitative ideas and run backtests.

In BRAIN, we call mathematical models that seek to predict the future price movement of various financial instruments as Alphas. You can backtest these Alphas, verify the results, and even submit promising ones.

BRAIN also provides global talent the opportunity to become research consultants in select approved countries and participate in WorldQuant’s greater research efforts.

## 🔬 Quantitative investing
What's quantitative investing? It means investing through predetermined mathematical models based on stock characteristics, without emotional intervention. It's about defining rules in advance about when, how much, and which stocks to invest in.

To verify if these rules work well, we need to implement our idea using code and test its potential performance in the market, a process called backtesting.

## 🌍 The Quant Ecosystem
Quant ecosystem is the infrastructure or pipeline through which quantitative signals are created, tested, and implemented. For example, WorldQuant BRAIN offers a pool of over 120,000 data-fields for you to test your ideas.

You can analyze data on the BRAIN platform and create alphas, the mathematical models that seek to predict the future price movements of various financial instruments.